<!-- loio3be43c996c5f1014a512d60a08c26481 -->

# ALTER SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine

Alters a sequence.This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only. 



<a name="loio3be43c996c5f1014a512d60a08c26481__section_ovp_dvr_znb"/>

## Usage

This data lake Relational Engine SQL statement can be used when connected as follows:

-   Connected directly to data lake Relational Engine as a data lake Relational Engine user.



```
ALTER SEQUENCE [<owner>.]<sequence-name>
   [ RESTART WITH <signed-integer> ]
   [ INCREMENT BY <signed-integer> ]
   [ { MINVALUE <signed-integer> | NO MINVALUE } ]
   [ { MAXVALUE <signed-integer> | NO MAXVALUE } ]
   [ { CACHE <integer> | NO CACHE } ]
   [ { CYCLE | NO CYCLE } ];
```



> ### Note:  
> Sections in this topic are minimized. To expand or recollapse a section, click the title next to the right arrow \(*\>*\).



## Parameters


<dl class="glossary">
<dt><b>

RESTART WITH

</b></dt>
<dd>

Restarts the named sequence with the specified value.



</dd><dt><b>

INCREMENT BY

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the amount the next sequence value is incremented from the last value assigned. The default is 1. Specify a negative value to generate a descending sequence. An error is returned if the INCREMENT BY value is 0.



</dd><dt><b>

MINVALUE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the smallest value generated by the sequence. The default is 1. An error is returned if MINVALUE is greater than \( 2<sup>^63</sup>-1\) or less than -\(2<sup>^63</sup>-1\). An error is also returned if MINVALUE is greater than MAXVALUE.



</dd><dt><b>

MAXVALUE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the largest value generated by the sequence. The default is 2<sup>^63</sup>-1. An error is returned if MAXVALUE is greater than 2<sup>^63</sup>-1 or less than -\(2<sup>^63</sup>-1\).



</dd><dt><b>

CACHE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Specifies the number of preallocated sequence values that are kept in memory for faster access. When the cache is exhausted, the sequence cache is repopulated and a corresponding entry is written to the transaction log. At checkpoint time, the current value of the cache is forwarded to the ISYSSEQUENCE system table. The default is 100.



</dd><dt><b>

CYCLE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Specifies whether values should continue to be generated after the maximum or minimum value is reached.

The default is NO CYCLE, which returns an error once the maximum or minimum value is reached.



</dd>
</dl>



## Remarks

If the named sequence cannot be located, an error message is returned.



<a name="loio3be43c996c5f1014a512d60a08c26481__section_x1b_hhz_m2b"/>

## Privileges

If you own the sequence, no additional privilege is required. For sequences owned by others, your require one of the following:

-   ALTER ANY SEQUENCE system privilege
-   ALTER ANY OBJECT system privilege

See [GRANT System Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](grant-system-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3dfcb0.md) for assistance with granting privileges. 



## Side Effects

Automatic commit.



## Standards


<dl>
<dt><b>

ANSI/ISO SQL Standard

</b></dt>
<dd>

The ALTER SEQUENCE statement is part of optional ANSI/ISO SQL Language Feature T176. The CACHE clause is not in the standard.



</dd>
</dl>



## Example

The following example sets a new maximum value for a sequence named Test:

```
ALTER SEQUENCE Test 
   MAXVALUE 1500;
```

**Related Information**  


[CREATE SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](create-sequence-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-3be47d4.md "Creates a sequence that can be used to generate primary key values that are unique across multiple tables, and for generating default values for a table. This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only.")

[DROP SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](drop-sequence-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-3be48e5.md "Drops a sequence. This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only.")

[REVOKE System Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](revoke-system-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3eadda.md "Removes specific system privileges from specific users and the right to administer the privilege.")

