<!-- loio3be47d496c5f1014bf06bb7791ce7a38 -->

# CREATE SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine

Creates a sequence that can be used to generate primary key values that are unique across multiple tables, and for generating default values for a table.This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only. 



<a name="loio3be47d496c5f1014bf06bb7791ce7a38__section_ovp_dvr_znb"/>

## Usage

This data lake Relational Engine SQL statement can be used when connected as follows:

-   Connected directly to data lake Relational Engine as a data lake Relational Engine user.



```
CREATE [ OR REPLACE ] SEQUENCE [ <owner> .]<sequence-name>
   [ INCREMENT BY <signed-integer> ]
   [ START WITH <signed-integer> ]
   [ { MINVALUE <signed-integer> | NO MINVALUE } ]
   [ { MAXVALUE <signed-integer> | NO MAXVALUE } ]
   [ { CACHE <integer> | NO CACHE } ]
   [ { CYCLE | NO CYCLE } ];
```



> ### Note:  
> Sections in this topic are minimized. To expand or recollapse a section, click the title next to the right arrow \(*\>*\).



## Parameters


<dl class="glossary">
<dt><b>

OR REPLACE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Specifying OR REPLACE creates a new sequence, or replaces an existing sequence with the same name. If you do not use the OR REPLACE clause, an error is returned if you specify the name of a sequence that already exists for the current user.



</dd><dt><b>

INCREMENT BY

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the amount the next sequence value is incremented from the last value assigned. The default is 1. Specify a negative value to generate a descending sequence. An error is returned if the INCREMENT BY value is 0.



</dd><dt><b>

START WITH

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the starting sequence value. If you do not specify a value for the START WITH clause, MINVALUE is used for ascending sequences and MAXVALUE is used for descending sequences. An error is returned if the START WITH value is beyond the range specified by MINVALUE or MAXVALUE.



</dd><dt><b>

MINVALUE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the smallest value generated by the sequence. The default is 1. An error is returned if MINVALUE is greater than \( 2<sup>^63</sup>-1\) or less than -\(2<sup>^63</sup>-1\). An error is also returned if MINVALUE is greater than MAXVALUE.



</dd><dt><b>

MAXVALUE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Defines the largest value generated by the sequence. The default is 2<sup>^63</sup>-1. An error is returned if MAXVALUE is greater than 2<sup>^63</sup>-1 or less than -\(2<sup>^63</sup>-1\).



</dd><dt><b>

CACHE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Specifies the number of preallocated sequence values that are kept in memory for faster access. When the cache is exhausted, the sequence cache is repopulated and a corresponding entry is written to the transaction log. At checkpoint time, the current value of the cache is forwarded to the ISYSSEQUENCE system table. The default is 100.



</dd><dt><b>

CYCLE

</b></dt>
<dd>

Specifies whether values should continue to be generated after the maximum or minimum value is reached.

The default is NO CYCLE, which returns an error once the maximum or minimum value is reached.



</dd>
</dl>



## Remarks

A sequence is a database object that allows the automatic generation of numeric values. A sequence is not bound to a specific or unique table column.

Sequences can generate values in one of the following ways:

-   Increment or decrement monotonically without bound
-   Increment or decrement monotonically to a user-defined limit and stop
-   Increment or decrement monotonically to a user-defined limit and cycle back to the beginning and start again

You control the behavior when the sequence runs out of values using the CYCLE clause.

If a sequence is increasing and it exceeds the MAXVALUE, MINVALUE is used as the next sequence value if CYCLE is specified. If a sequence is decreasing and it falls below MINVALUE, MAXVALUE is used as the next sequence value if CYCLE is specified. If CYCLE is not specified, an error is returned.

Sequence values cannot be used with views or materialized view definitions.

To return the next value in the sequence, use `[owner.]sequence-name.NEXTVAL`. The sequence is shared by all connections, so each connection will get a unique next value.

To return the most recently supplied sequence value for the current connection, use `[owner.]sequence-name.CURRVAL`.



## Privileges

Requires one of:

-   CREATE ANY SEQUENCE or system privilege
-   CREATE ANY OBJECT system privilege

To replace an existing sequence, requires one of:

-   CREATE ANY SEQUENCE and DROP ANY SEQUENCE system privilegesCREATE ANY OBJECT and DROP ANY OBJECT system privilegesALTER ANY OBJECT or ALTER ANY SEQUENCE system privileges

See [GRANT System Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](grant-system-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3dfcb0.md) for assistance with granting privileges.



## Side Effects

Automatic commit.



## Standards


<dl>
<dt><b>

ANSI/ISO SQL Standard

</b></dt>
<dd>

Sequences comprise SQL Language Feature T176. The software does not allow optional specification of the sequence data type. This behavior can be achieved with a CAST when using the sequence.

In addition, the following are not in the standard:

-   CACHE clause
-   OR REPLACE syntax
-   CURRVAL expression
-   Use of sequences in DEFAULT expressions



</dd>
</dl>



## Example

The following example creates a sequence named Test that starts at 4, increments by 2, does not cycle, and caches 15 values at a time:

```
CREATE SEQUENCE Test
START WITH 4
INCREMENT BY 2
NO MAXVALUE
NO CYCLE
CACHE 15;
```

**Related Information**  


[ALTER SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](alter-sequence-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-3be43c9.md "Alters a sequence. This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only.")

[DROP SEQUENCE Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](drop-sequence-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-3be48e5.md "Drops a sequence. This statement applies to data lake Relational Engine catalog store tables only.")

[REVOKE System Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](revoke-system-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3eadda.md "Removes specific system privileges from specific users and the right to administer the privilege.")

