<!-- loioa50ef7e784f21015a617b71907e9c844 -->

# Global Variables

Global variables are system-supplied variables that provide system-supplied values.



Data lake Relational Engine sets the values of global variables. For example, the global variable *<@@version\>* has a value that is the current version number of the database server.

Global variables are distinguished from local and connection-level variables by two @ signs preceding their names. For example, *<@@error\>* is a global variable. Users cannot create global variables, and cannot update the value of global variables directly.

Some global variables, such as *<@@spid\>*, hold connection-specific information and therefore have connection-specific values. Other variables, such as *<@@connections\>*, have values that are common to all connections.



<a name="loioa50ef7e784f21015a617b71907e9c844__iq_refbb_141"/>

## Global Variable and Special Constants

The special constants such as CURRENT DATE, CURRENT TIME, USER, SQLSTATE, and so on, are similar to global variables.

The following statement retrieves the value of the version global variable:

```
SELECT @@version
```

In procedures, global variables can be selected into a variable list. The following procedure returns the server version number in the *<ver\>* parameter:

```
CREATE PROCEDURE VersionProc ( OUT ver
                                                 VARCHAR ( 100) )
                                BEGIN
                                    SELECT @@version
                                    INTO ver;
                                END
```

In Embedded SQL, global variables can be selected into a host variable list.



<a name="loioa50ef7e784f21015a617b71907e9c844__iq_refbb_142"/>

## List of Global Variables

This table lists the global variables available in data lake Relational Engine.


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Variable Name



</th>
<th valign="top">

Meaning



</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@bigrowcount\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

The *<@@bigrowcount\>* variable returns values up to 9223372036854775807.

For operations that affect less than 2147483647, both *<@@rowcount\>* and *<@@bigrowcount\>* return the same value; hence, applications that can handle 64-bit integer values can use *<@@bigrowcount\>* in all situations.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@error\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Commonly used to check the error status \(succeeded or failed\) of the most recently executed statement. Contains 0 if the previous transaction succeeded; otherwise, contains the last error number generated by the system. A statement such as if *<@@error\>* != 0 return causes an exit if an error occurs. Every SQL statement resets *<@@error\>*, so the status check must immediately follow the statement whose success is in question.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@fetch\_status\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Contains status information resulting from the last fetch statement. *<@@fetch\_status\>* may contain the following values:

-   0 – the fetch statement completed successfully
-   \-1 – the fetch statement resulted in an error
-   \-2 – there is no more data in the result set

This feature is the same as *<@@sqlstatus\>*, except that it returns different values. It is for Microsoft SQL Server compatibility.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@identity\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

The last value inserted into an Identity/Autoincrement column by an insert, load, or update statement. *<@@identity\>* is reset each time a row is inserted into a table. If a statement inserts multiple rows, then *<@@identity\>* reflects the Identity/Autoincrement value for the last row inserted. If the affected table does not contain an Identity/Autoincrement column, then *<@@identity\>* is set to 0.

The value of *<@@identity\>* is not affected by the failure of an insert, load, or update statement, or the rollback of the transaction that contained the failed statement. *<@@identity\>* retains the last value inserted into an Identity/Autoincrement column, even if the statement that inserted that value fails to commit.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@isolation\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Current isolation level. *<@@isolation\>* takes the value of the active level.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@procid\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Stored procedure ID of the currently executing procedure.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@rowcount\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

The *<@@rowcount\>* variable can determine the number of rows that were affected by the most recent statement. The value of *<@@rowcount\>* should be checked immediately after the statement. Inserts, updates, and deletes set *<@@rowcount\>* to the number of rows affected.

The *<@@rowcount\>* variable returns values up to 2147483647. If the previous operation affects a larger number of rows, then the application can now query the *<@@bigrowcount\>* variable instead.

With cursors, *<@@rowcount\>* represents the cumulative number of rows returned from the cursor result set to the client, up to the last fetch request. The *<@@rowcount\>* is not reset to zero by any statement, which does not affect rows, such as an IF statement.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@servername\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Name of the current database server.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@sqlstatus\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Contains status information resulting from the last FETCH statement.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 *<@@version\>* 



</td>
<td valign="top">

Version number of the current version of data lake Relational Engine.



</td>
</tr>
</table>

