<!-- loioa5fcfb3684f21015831aa4be64bd5962 -->

# sp\_iqsetcompression Procedure for Data Lake Relational Engine

Sets compression of data in columns of LONG BINARY \(BLOB\) and LONG VARCHAR \(CLOB\) data types.



> ### Restriction:  
> This data lake Relational Engine procedure can be used when connected as follows:
> 
> -   Connected directly to data lake Relational Engine as a data lake Relational Engine user.



```
sp_iqsetcompression ( <owner>, <table>, <column>, <on_off_flag> )
```



<a name="loioa5fcfb3684f21015831aa4be64bd5962__iq_iquda_115"/>

## Parameters

 *<owner\>*
 :   The owner of the table for which you are setting compression

  *<table\>*
 :   The table for which you are setting compression

  *<column\>*
 :   The column for which you are setting compression

  *<on\_off\_flag\>*
 :   A compression setting:

    -   ON – enables compression
    -   OFF – disables compression

 

<a name="loioa5fcfb3684f21015831aa4be64bd5962__iq_iquda_117"/>

## Remarks

sp\_iqsetcompression provides control of compression of LONG BINARY \(BLOB\) and LONG VARCHAR \(CLOB\) data type columns. The compression setting applies only to base tables.

> ### Note:  
> sp\_iqsetcompression does not change existing data. Changes are applied to new LOB pages generated by a LOAD TABLE statement, or an UPDATE statement.



<a name="loioa5fcfb3684f21015831aa4be64bd5962__iq_iquda_116"/>

## Privileges

To run this procedure, you need the EXECUTE privilege on the procedure. See [GRANT Object-Level Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](../080-sql-statements/grant-object-level-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3e154f.md). 

You also need one of the following: 


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Privilege Name



</th>
<th valign="top">

Privilege Type



</th>
<th valign="top">

Grant Statement



</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

-   ALTER ANY TABLE
-   ALTER ANY OBJECT



</td>
<td valign="top">

System privileges



</td>
<td valign="top">

[GRANT System Privilege Statement for Data Lake Relational Engine](../080-sql-statements/grant-system-privilege-statement-for-data-lake-relational-engine-a3dfcb0.md)



</td>
</tr>
</table>



## Side Effects

A side effect of sp\_iqsetcompression is that a COMMIT occurs after you change the compression setting.



<a name="loioa5fcfb3684f21015831aa4be64bd5962__iq_iquda_119"/>

## Example

Assume this table definition:

```
CREATE TABLE USR.pixTable (picID INT NOT NULL,
picJPG LONG BINARY NOT NULL);
```

To turn off compression on the LOB column picJPG, call sp\_iqsetcompression:

```
CALL sp_iqsetcompression('USR', 'pixTable', 'picJPG',
'OFF') ;
```

This command returns no rows.

